---
layout: post
title: Metis Project1
---

* EDA of MTA data
-----

My first project in Metis was to do Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) with [MTA turnstile data](http://web.mta.info/developers/turnstile.html). MTA publically offers the entry and exit of every turnstile date for the past 10+ years with every 4 hours frequency. Google 'Turnstile Usage Data Data Dictionary' to understand what each column means. This project was aimed to practice numpy and pandas as well as some Python visual tools such as matplotlib and seaborn.


Here are the general outline for data science project

* Import Data
* Data Preprocessing
* Exploratory Data Analysis
* Conclusion


### Import Data

The easiest way is to use pandas' read_csv functionality such as :

df = pd.read_csv('http://web.mta.info/developers/data/nyct/turnstile/turnstile_190406.txt')

Meanwhile, a clever way would be to use a funciton to read multiple data at once:

def get_data(week_nums):
    url = "http://web.mta.info/developers/data/nyct/turnstile/turnstile_{}.txt"
    dfs = []
    for week_num in week_nums:
        file_url = url.format(week_num)
        dfs.append(pd.read_csv(file_url))
    return pd.concat(dfs)
        
week_nums = [190525, 190518, 190511, 190504, 190427, 190420, 190413, 190406]
turnstiles_df = get_data(week_nums)



### Data Preprocessing

Use groupby and diff() to calculate the number of daily passengers. If interested in 'Day of Week' effect, use dandas' datatime.

### EDA

Use Boxplot or Histogram

### Conclusion

The result is very predictable with the common sense: 42 Times Squres, 42 Grand Central, 34 Herald Squres, 34 Penn Stations, Fulto Stations, etc were among the most populated stations.

### Details

Details will be posted later. Thanks for your patence!
